`Table` `Multi-select`: documentation (#1881)
hashicorp/design-system: website/docs/components/table/partials/guidelines/guidelines.md

- We recommend using `medium` cell density by default.
- If content is complex or a smaller data set (e.g., a Table of basic user data), `tall` cell density allows for more breathing room surrounding the content.
- If content is largely string/text-based, `short` allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

## Multi-selection

> A multi-select table includes checkboxes enabling users to select multiple rows in a table for to perform bulk operations. Checkboxes within rows can be selected or deselected while checking or unchecking the checkbox in the table header selects or deselects the checkboxes in every row of the table body.

Author: ```suggestion
A multi-select table includes checkboxes enabling users to select multiple rows in a table to perform bulk operations. Checking or unchecking the checkbox in the table header either selects or deselects the checkboxes on each row in the table body. Individual checkboxes in the rows can also be selected or deselected.
```

Author: @andgen404

Author: Never mind. I'm going to update these as part of other updates I'm making.

2. `Cell / Select`: Used in each table row allowing for the selection of an individual row.

![Example of multi-selection within table cells](/assets/components/table/multi-select-cells.png)

### Intended interaction

- When individual rows are selected, the parent checkbox in the Table header changes to display an indeterminate state. 
- When no or some rows (but not all) are selected in a single Table, clicking the parent checkbox in the Table header will change to display as checked and all rows on that page will be selected.
- When all rows are selected in a single Table, the parent checkbox in the header appears as checked. Clicking the parent checkbox will deselect all rows on that page.
- An additional action outside of the Table is needed in order to select all rows across a paginated Table.

!!! Info

This documentation currently covers fundamental multi-select table interactions. We're working to include comprehensive patterns for additional actions. For questions or concerns, please reach out to [#team-design-systems](https://hashicorp.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C7KTUHNUS)

> !!!

Reviewer: @hashibot-hds Following up on our discussion on adding a banner to convey future work, I added this info banner between the intended interaction section and an example to convey future pattern work and a place for consumers to reach out. I'm open to feedback on this; thank you!

Reviewer 2: Maybe try this:

```suggestion
!!! Info

This documentation currently covers only fundamental multi-select table interactions. We're working to include more comprehensive patterns for handling actions when multiple rows are selected and how this impacts filtering and pagination within a data set. For questions or concerns, please reach out to [#team-design-systems](https://hashicorp.enterprise.slack.com/archives/C7KTUHNUS)
!!!
```

<video width="100%" controls loop>
  <source

>     src="/assets/components/table/multi-select-interaction-01.mp4"
>     type="video/mp4"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    src="/assets/components/table/multi-selection-interaction-01.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
```

  />

> </video>

Reviewer 2: Yes I can! Is that something that would be helpful to add to the wiki?

> </video>

Reviewer 3: Yea, I think that's a good spot for it. Thanks!

- We recommend using `medium` cell density by default.
- If content is complex or a smaller data set (e.g., a Table of basic user data), `tall` cell density allows for more breathing room surrounding the content.
- If content is largely string/text-based, `short` allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

## Multi-selection

> A multi-select table includes checkboxes enabling users to select multiple rows in a table for to perform bulk operations. Checking or unchecking the checkbox in the table header either selects or deselects the checkboxes in each row of the table body. Individual checkboxes in the rows can also be selected or deselected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multi-select table includes checkboxes enabling users to select multiple rows in a table for to perform bulk operations. Checkboxes within rows can be selected or deselected while checking or unchecking the checkbox in the table header selects or deselects the checkboxes in every row of the table body.
```

Multi-selection consists of: 

1. `Header Column / Select`: Used in the table's header row. This acts as the parent checkbox, allowing the selection or deselection of all child rows in a single table simultaneously.

![Example of multi-selection in a table header](/assets/components/table/multi-select-header.png)

2. `Cell / Select`: Used in each table row allowing for the selection of an individual row.

![Example of multi-selection within table cells](/assets/components/table/multi-select-cells.png)

### Intended interaction

- When individual rows are selected, the parent checkbox in the Table header changes to display an indeterminate state. 
- When no or some rows (but not all) are selected on a single Table, clicking the parent checkbox in the Table header will change to display as checked and all rows on that page will be selected.

> - When all rows are selected on a single Table, the parent checkbox in the header appears as checked. Clicking the parent checkbox will deselect all rows on that page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When all rows are selected in a single Table, the parent checkbox in the header appears as checked. Clicking the parent checkbox will deselect all rows on that page.
```

> - An additional action, outside of the Table, is needed in order to select all rows across all pages.

Reviewer: @KristinLBradley and @hashicorp/hds-design 
--
In the multi-select consist... area above, I have written out the following: 

1. `Header Column / Select`: Used in the table's header row. This acts as the parent checkbox, allowing the selection or deselection of all child rows in a single table simultaneously.

While here, I have written out the intended interaction, which covers the expected interactions for the parent checkbox. Would adding in this section something along the lines of: 

While we recommend this expected interaction for the parent checkbox, on the application level there is flexibility for what occurs on the end user experience. For example, the parent checkbox can select all child checkboxes in the current view.

Author: I'm not sure exactly what this means and not sure if we need to include other info around this: 

"While we recommend this expected interaction for the parent checkbox, on the application level, there is flexibility for what occurs in the end-user experience. For example, the parent checkbox can select all child checkboxes in the Table."

Reviewer 2: I think what you updated that point to works 👍

Regarding the flexibility of the parent checkbox, I'm not sure if this flexibility actually exists within the component. @KristinLBradley is it possible for a consumer to alter the functionality of the parent checkbox to select _all_ rows in a paginated table?

I don't think I would include something like that for now, but maybe there's a better way to cover the flexibility?

Author: It's not built in. They would have to write a feature to track the state and use that to update everything and we would need to provide a way to select an initial checkbox state from a parameter that they provide. The current implementation doesn't track state. I could possibly look into this.

Reviewer: Yeah, maybe keeping that in mind for when we begin pattern documentation for this would come in handy, but i'll keep the current documentation for this section then. Thank you!

Reviewer 4: @andgen404 we can look into it, if it's achievable with the current implementation (I imagine it would be, since they control the state, but we have to double check)

@KristinLBradley we need to discuss and clarify what we mean with "state" to avoid confusion between us: there are different possible "states" that we can refer to: the initial state (if a row is selected or not), the current state (if a row is selected or not in the DOM), the persisted state (eg if a user refresh the page), etc.
Plus, we have to consider the state of a row single row (that may change atomically), vs the state of the entire table (that can change all at once, via the "select all", or when one of the rows is updated).

<video width="100%" controls loop>
  <source
    src="/assets/components/table/multi-selection-interaction-01.mp4"
    type="video/mp4"
  />
</video>

> <!--TODO: Add in for future use of pattern documentation #### Within a paginated table: 
> 
> - Global Actions:
> In addition to page-specific actions, paginated tables may benefit from global actions like a "Select all users" feature. This would apply to all rows across every page in the table, enabling actions on a larger scale (e.g., selecting all 53 users in a dataset or deselecting). 
> 
> <video width="100%" controls loop>
>   <source
>     src="/assets/components/table/multi-selection-interaction-02.mp4"
>     type="video/mp4"
>   />
> </video>-->

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

- We recommend using `medium` cell density by default.
- If content is complex or a smaller data set (e.g., a Table of basic user data), `tall` cell density allows for more breathing room surrounding the content.
- If content is largely string/text-based, `short` allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

## Multi-Selection

Multi-selection enables users to select multiple rows in a table, facilitating bulk operations, actions, and editing. 

> Multi-selection consist of: 

Author: Possibly? It seems though that if they are allowed to select more than one row though that there would then always be a possibility that they could select all. If there were not a header checkbox, then they would have to select each row individually to select all.

> Multi-selection consist of: 

Reviewer 3: @andgen404 @jorytindall curious if either of you have thoughts on this?

> Multi-selection consist of: 

Reviewer: I would say that if checkboxes were present in multiple rows, the ideal experience would be to have a header checkbox as well. Similar to what Kristin mentioned.

> Multi-selection consist of: 

Reviewer: I can't imagine, from what I've seen, where a table would not have a header checkbox. Unless it was a smaller table with fewer rows, the end user would only select from those rows I am thinking aloud, though.

> Multi-selection consist of: 

Author: It would complicate the API & implementation in code for what seems to be a not particularly useful variant...

1. `Header Column / Select`: Used in the header row of the table. This acts as a master checkbox, enabling end-users to either select or deselect all rows on a single page simultaneously.

![Example of multi-selection in a table header](/assets/components/table/multi-select-header.png)

2. `Cell / Select`: Used in each table row. It allows for individual row selection and aligns with the Header Column component, reflecting the overall selection status of the table.

![Example of multi-selection within table cells](/assets/components/table/multi-select-cells.png)

!!! Info 

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Author: Repeating my comment from the old PR:

_@andgen404 I don't quite understand what you mean here. Are you talking about having an indeterminate state on the checkboxes in the table body rows (vs. in the table header)? Because that doesn't make sense to do anyway. I would be very confused by this as a consumer._

I would delete this entire Info alert.

Reviewer: Yeah, that's what I'm trying to convey, but I agree. I think calling it out here doesn't make much sense.

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Reviewer: I think what I'm trying to convey here is that the parent-child relationship is different in Figma vs. code. So if, in Figma, a consumer wanted to have an indeterminate state within one of the row columns, in code, they would not be able to do so. I think that maybe calling this out does not have much value as an `Info banner.`

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Author: I can't imagine a situation in which a user could trigger an indeterminate state in a row or how that would have any value. I think unless/until we actually come up with a situation in which that would somehow be relevant or useful even mentioning it is confusing.

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Author: Andrew, do you want to go ahead and delete this Info notice for now?

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Reviewer 3: Ah, I see, so in Figma, it _is_ possible to set a row's checkbox to indeterminate because it's reusing the `checkbox` component, even though that's not the intention or desired outcome.

I agree with @KristinLBradley that mentioning this may cause confusion, so let's omit it. If we find consumers use it incorrectly, we can help with education and follow up with clarification in the docs.

> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 

Reviewer: Okay, yeah @KristinLBradley lets go ahead and delete this

- We recommend using `medium` cell density by default.
- If content is complex or a smaller data set (e.g., a Table of basic user data), `tall` cell density allows for more breathing room surrounding the content.
- If content is largely string/text-based, `short` allows for more content to be displayed within the page.
- While denser content allows for more rows to be displayed within a single page, it also makes comprehension and scanning more difficult.

> ## Multi-Selection

Reviewer 3: As a general [rule](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1WyoJVpWFVgWbCnZ28WW0gRJwJlj-qV5oY0ExhDR2obs/edit#heading=h.putdvt71lgzo) for headlines, we also use sentence case, so +1 to this.

> Multi-selection enables users to select multiple rows in a table, facilitating bulk operations, actions, and editing. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multi-select table includes checkboxes enabling users to select multiple rows in a table for purposes of performing bulk operations. Checking or unchecking the checkbox in the table header either selects or deselects the checkboxes on each row in the table body. Individual checkboxes in the rows can also be selected or deselected.
```

Multi-selection consist of: 

> 1. `Header Column / Select`: Used in the table's header row. This acts as the parent checkbox, allowing the selection or deselection of all child rows on a single page simultaneously.

Reviewer 3: @andgen404 can confirm, but I believe "page" is being used because if the table is paginated, then the checkbox in the header will only select the visible rows (so a single "page"). That's at least how I've understood this to work as it's been explained in reviews, but if that's not the intended interaction, then "table" probably makes more sense.

> 1. `Header Column / Select`: Used in the table's header row. This acts as the parent checkbox, allowing the selection or deselection of all child rows on a single page simultaneously.

Reviewer: Yeah +1 to what @heatherlarsen said, I used a page here for multiple pages in a table. The Header Column / Select would select all rows in that page view.

![Example of multi-selection in a table header](/assets/components/table/multi-select-header.png)

2. `Cell / Select`: Used in each table row allowing for the selection of an individual row.

![Example of multi-selection within table cells](/assets/components/table/multi-select-cells.png)

> !!! Info 
> 
> In the Ember component, unlike the `cell / select` Figma component, achieving an indeterminate state is not possible. 
> !!!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Intended interaction

> - When individual rows are selected, the parent checkbox in the `Table` header changes to display an indeterminate state. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When individual rows are selected, the parent checkbox in the Table header changes to display an indeterminate state. 
```

> - When no or some rows (but not all) are selected on a single page, clicking the parent checkbox in the `Table` header will change it to display as checked, and all rows on that page will be selected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When no or some rows (but not all) are selected on a single Table, clicking the parent checkbox in the Table header will change to display as checked and all rows on that page will be selected.
```

> - When all rows are selected on a single page, the parent checkbox in the `Table` header appears as checked. Clicking the parent checkbox will deselect all rows on that page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When all rows are selected on a single Table, the parent checkbox in the header appears as checked. Clicking the parent checkbox will deselect all rows on that page.
```

Ah, I see now why you're using the term "page", as in a paginated table. I think this might get a little confusing because this could refer to the page within the UI more holistically, or a page of results (out of multiple) within a table. I might recommend sticking to "Table" for now just for consistency and to not introduce confusion.

> - An additional action, outside of the `Table`, is needed in order to select all rows across all pages.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- An additional action, outside of the Table, is needed in order to select all rows across all pages.
```
